https://ghc.haskell.org/trac/ghc/wiki/Commentary/SourceTree/Includes

## Data Structures


Task: OS threads are represented by Task.
- Tasks hold Capabilities
- the Task can give up its Capability if:
1. the next thread on the run queue cannot be executed by this Task. This can
happen if: the next thread is bound to another task, or if it is unbound
(therefore needs to be bound to a task) and the current task is bound.
2. There is a Task waiting to return to Haskell from an FFI call
3. (Single Threaded case) another Task is trying to GC. GC is stop the world.

Capability: virtual machine for Haskell execution
- running_task points to the current Task holding it. If null, this Capability
is free
- Each capability holds a pool of free Tasks

The important components of a Capability are:

The registers of the virtual machine, for executing Haskell code (although while
actually executing, some of these registers may be held in real machine
registers, they are only saved to the Capability when returning to the
scheduler).
The Task that is currently animating this Capability.
A queue of runnable Haskell threads (the run queue).
A list of Haskell threads currently making safe foreign calls.
A list of worker OS threads.
A list of Tasks waiting to return to Haskell from foreign calls.
A list of Haskell threads waiting to wake up on this Capability.

Run Queue:
- each Capability has a Run Queue.
- the Run Queue is a GC Root.


Haskell threads are represented by a TSO (thread state object). TSOs are GC'ed
- bound thread
  A bound thread is created as the result of a call-in from outside Haskell;
  that is, a call to foreign export or foreign import "wrapper". A bound thread
  is tied to the OS thread that made the call; all further foreign calls made by
  this Haskell thread are made in the same OS thread. (this is part of the
  design of the FFI, described in the paper ​Extending the Haskell Foreign
  Function Inteface with Concurrency).

- unbound thread
  An unbound thread is created by Control.Concurrent.forkIO. Foreign calls made
  by an unbound thread are made by an arbitrary OS thread.

- TSO created in createThread in rts/Thread.c. Called by createGenThread,
  createIOThread and createStrictIOThread in rts/RtsAPI.c

RC lives in the TSO.

  cap->r.rCurrentTSO->rc


----------------------

TODO

1. implement timer (kind of done)
- if a thread enters the scheduler due to an error we need to reschedule it
2. stuck threads
3. single core forking
4. forking across cores
- rc needs a list of capabilities?
5. kill/timeout/reclamation

-----------------------------

COMPILING

inplace/bin/ghc-stage1 -rtsopts -debug -eventlog stress_examples/stress1.hs

RUNNING

run with: +RTS -M1200000000
